---
layout: post
title: Suggestions for your monthly resolutions 
author: Paolo Dona
---

As you know, I'm into "monthly resolutions":http://paolodona.com/2009/07/07/replace-year-resolution-with-12-monthly-resolutions.html.
I want to find out new goals as this way to improve my lifestyle has proven really successful and rewarding.

Here you'll find a bunch of ideas from which I'll choose my September's resolution:

* Track personal finances and expenses
* Do not drink Soda
* Always cook my own lunch and bring it to work (as opposed to buy it)
* Relax properly every day (eg: 10 minutes of pure rest or breathing excercises) 
* 10 minutes of walking/running a day (maybe using my "fivefingers":http://picasaweb.google.com/paolo.dona/5fingers)
* Check email twice a day at regular times
* Work on my own projects every Saturday morning
* Declutter the house 10 minutes a day
* Have a basic weekly dinner program (so that I don't randomly eat junk food)

They're just Ideas and I've got only four months left this year so I'm pretty sure I won't be able to do them all, but they can be inspirational for you as well. Once you've compiled your own list you need to go through it and ask yourself the following questions:

# What's the habit which can have the most impact on my life?
# Which habit would I be the most proud of?
# Which habit would solve a behaviour which I consider an issue now?

My answers to these questions are:

# Most impact: *Work on my projects every Saturday morning* as I dream to run my own online products in the future.
# Most proud of: *10 minutes of walking/running* as could help me to get started with regular excercise. 
# Solve an issue: *Check email only twice a day* as I feel I'm too distracted and need to focus more on getting my stuff done instead of being always 'email driven'.

I decided to go with the "Email twice a day" resolution, as I've been fascinated by:
# "Marc Andreessen's guide to personal productivity":http://web.archive.org/web/20071024171340/http://blog.pmarca.com/2007/06/the_pmarca_guid.html
# "Tim Ferris: How to Check E-mail Twice a Day or Once Every 10 Days":http://www.fourhourworkweek.com/blog/2007/03/22/how-to-check-e-mail-twice-a-day-or-once-every-10-days/.

What's _your_ September's resolution?
