---
layout: post
title: Status Update November 2010
author: Paolo Dona
---
Hi guys, I haven't posted anything in a long while, and thought to drop you a quick update. Highlight: I'm alive and doing well, you can skip the rest :)

So, what have I been up to during the past months? I'm extremely busy on an interesting project: a marketing communication platform that incorporates multiple channels: email, sms, social media + CRM aspects and a really kick ass reporting engine. 

We're dealing with massive volumes here and there are challenging technical problems that need to be solved. Luckily enough I'm supported by great engineers and I'm sure this will be a huge success.

I'm spending half of my time in Manchester with this new team and for the first time in my life I have to deal with PHP & new technologies like MongoDB etc. To be honest I'm not doing the programming myself, but it's interesting to see the difference between these technologies and the Ruby/MySQL world I'm so used to.

At the same time, the quest to conquer the world of language schools continues with my "NiftySchool.com":http://www.niftyschool.com. This is really a humbling experience. 

I'm working really hard on this baby to make it the best software a language school can buy. You need dedication, patience and a pretty much unlimited amount of willpower to keep helping your customers and understand what is really useful, day after day after day. After day. But I love it and I'm not going to stop. 

What I have failed to understand in the past, is the level of sacrifice and dedication needed to make your product succeed. Many can write a piece of software, few can suffer long enough to see it flourish. Few are able to say no to all of the distractions preventing them to achieve their goals.

Early mornings, late evenings, weekends, any available moment is spent tweaking, improving and giving our schools our best.

We already introduced a number of interesting features such as ability to take online payments, automated document generation, taking pictures of the students via webcam, contact management, alerts and so on. On top of that full support for the American market and visa handling. 

The roadmap is filled with interesting and useful stuff and we can't wait to impress our customers and get new schools onboard.

I dreamed about having a product for a long while, and now, even if slowly, the dream is becoming true.

This is pretty much it. I have very little time for anything else now... hope you're doing well too. If you want feel free to get in touch.
Paolo
